<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<root>
  <objective>
Primary objectives
To determine the diagnostic accuracy of platelet count, spleen length, and platelet count-to-spleen length ratio for the diagnosis of oesophageal varices of any size in paediatric or adult patients with chronic liver disease or portal vein thrombosis, irrespective of their aetiology. To investigate the accuracy of these non-invasive tests as triage or replacement of oesophago-gastro-duodenoscopy. We considered separately studies with adult participants and studies with paediatric participants.
Secondary objectives
To compare the diagnostic accuracy of platelet count, spleen length, and platelet count-to-spleen length ratio for the diagnosis of high-risk oesophageal varices in paediatric or adult patients with chronic liver disease or portal vein thrombosis, irrespective of aetiology.
We aimed to perform pair-wise comparisons between the three index tests, while considering predefined cut-off values, as reported in the 'Index test' section.
We investigated the following sources of heterogeneity.
Chronic liver disease compared with portal vein thrombosis.
Prevalence of oesophageal varices in the study group (≥ 50% versus &lt; 50% for any varices; &gt; 25% versus ≤ 25% for high-risk varices).
Severity of liver disease Child A (&gt; 50% versus ≤ 50%).
Different aetiologies (hepatitis C virus (HCV)-associated cirrhosis versus cirrhosis of all causes).</objective>
  <type_of_study>
We aimed to include studies that, irrespective of publication status and language, evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of platelet count, spleen length, and platelet count-to-spleen length ratio for the diagnosis of oesophageal varices with oesophago-gastro-duodenoscopy as the reference standard. We considered studies of cross-sectional cohort design including people with clinical suspicion of portal hypertension as well as studies of participant-control design that compared people with oesophageal varices versus matched controls (Colli 2014a). We excluded studies that analysed data only per varix rather than per participant unless participant data were made available by study authors.</type_of_study>
  <participants>
 Participants included paediatric or adult patients of any age with chronic liver disease or portal vein thrombosis, irrespective of aetiology, severity of disease, and duration of illness, in whom the presence or absence of varices was confirmed by oesophago-gastro-duodenoscopy. The review focused on diagnostic questions related to patients who have not yet suffered gastrointestinal bleeding from oesophageal varices. Patients with a previous surgical portal-systemic shunt procedure or insertion of a transjugular intrahepatic portal-systemic shunt (TIPS), previous ligation or sclerotherapy of oesophageal varices, previous history of upper gastrointestinal portal hypertensive bleeding, or previous primary prophylactic therapy of variceal haemorrhage make up a distinct group for whom the diagnosis or natural history of oesophageal varices has been modified. These patients were not the focus of this review, hence we excluded studies that included such patients unless investigators presented data in such a way as to allow this patient group to be isolated from other included patients.</participants>
  <index_tests>
Platelet count is obtained from a complete blood count, a readily available automated clinical test. A platelet count cut-off value less than 150,000/mm3 is considered thrombocytopenia.
Spleen length is usually obtained through evaluation of the patient's abdomen by ultrasound scan (USS). Interobserver agreement when spleen length is determined with USS is considered excellent. For adults, the upper limit of spleen length is 130 mm, beyond which the spleen is generally considered enlarged. Spleen length of 110 mm is regarded as a sensitive cut-off for exclusion of splenomegaly (Grover 1993). For children, spleen length is expressed as a standard deviation score relative to normal values for both age and sex (spleen length z-score) (Megremis 2004).
Platelet count-to-spleen length ratio is a derivative mathematical model shown to increase the accuracy of both non-invasive tests for the diagnosis of oesophageal varices. The cut-off value used most often for adults is 909 (n/mm3)/mm. In children, platelet count-to-spleen length ratio is calculated using the spleen length z-score.</index_tests>
  <target_conditions>
The presence of any oesophageal varices (independent of size) was detected by oesophago-gastro-duodenoscopy. For secondary analyses, the target condition considered was the presence of oesophageal varices at high risk of bleeding. High-risk varices were defined as medium or large varices or small varices with red marks, or in patients with decompensated cirrhosis, as assessed by a B-C Child-Pugh score (Garcia-Tsao 2007). Studies will require at least one of two target conditions to be identified: the presence of any oesophageal varices, or the presence of high-risk varices.</target_conditions>
  <reference_standards>
Oesophago-gastro-duodenoscopy is the clinical reference standard test for the diagnosis of oesophageal varices in which the presence of varices in the oesophagus is directly observed through the endoscope. The size and appearance of oesophageal varices are graded at the time of endoscopy according to one of the systems described below, and the largest varix identified is used to classify the patient. Severity of cirrhosis, which is the other factor that defines bleeding risk, is assessed by Child-Pugh score, with three classes - A, B, and C - indicating increasing severity (Pugh 1973). Patients whose largest varix is medium or large or who are included in class B-C are considered for prophylactic therapy.
The Baveno Consensus system differentiates small from large oesophageal varices (de Franchis 1992), defining small oesophageal varices as varices that flatten with insufflation during endoscopy or that minimally protrude into the oesophageal lumen, and large oesophageal varices as varices that protrude into the oesophageal lumen and touch each other, or that fill at least 50% of the oesophageal lumen.
The Japanese Research Society for Portal Hypertension used three grades for variceal size (JSPH 1980). Grade 1 varices collapse with insufflation during endoscopy, grade 2 varices do not collapse with insufflation and do not occlude the lumen, and grade 3 varices occlude the lumen. For this review, we will consider grade 2 as equivalent to medium, and grade 3 as large.
The Japanese classification was revised by the Italian Liver Cirrhosis Project (ILCP) Group (Pagliaro 1988; Zoli 1996), which describes variceal size as the percentage of the radius of the oesophageal lumen that is occupied by the largest varix. A small or grade 1 varix is said to occupy less than 25%, a medium or grade 2 varix occupies 25% to 50%, and a large or grade 3 varix occupies greater than 50% of the radius of the lumen of the oesophagus.
The Cales criteria define varices as small if they flatten with insufflation during endoscopy, medium if they do not flatten with insufflation, and large if they do not flatten with insufflation during endoscopy and are confluent (Cales 1990).
We will include studies applying alternate classifications if adequately described and logically defined.
Red marks are usually noted as present or absent and may be described according to different classifications. Even small varices showing red marks are classified as ’at high risk of bleeding’.

The interval between index tests and oesophago-gastro-duodenoscopy has to be less than 3 months to avoid possible evolution of the target condition. When a study reported longer time intervals, we included the study but considered it to be at risk of bias. Clinically, patients with medium or large oesophageal varices or with red marks are at greatest risk of haemorrhage; therefore, we confined secondary analyses to two subgroups: patients with no varices and small varices compared with patients at high risk.</reference_standards>
</root>
