<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<root>
  <objective>
The aim of this review was to estimate and compare the accuracy of second trimester serum markers for the detection of Down’s syndrome in the antenatal period, both as individual markers and as combinations of markers. Accuracy is described by the proportion of fetuses with Down’s syndrome detected by screening before birth (sensitivity or detection rate) and the proportion of women with a low risk (normal) screening test result who subsequently had a baby unaffected by Down's syndrome (specificity). We grouped our analyses to focus on investigating the value of adding increasing numbers of markers (comparing single, dual, triple and quadruple tests), and of including Inhibin A, the most recent routine addition to serum marker combinations.
Investigation of sources of heterogeneity
We investigated whether a uniform screening test is suitable for all women, or whether different screening methods are more applicable to different groups, defined by advanced maternal age, ethnic groups and aspects of the pregnancy and medical history such as multiple pregnancy, diabetes and family history of Down's syndrome. We also considered whether there existed evidence of overestimation of test accuracy in studies evaluating risk equations in the derivation sample rather than in a separate validation sample.</objective>
  <type_of_study>
We included studies in which all women from a given population had one or more index test(s) compared to a reference standard. Both consecutive series and diagnostic case-control study designs were included. Randomised trials where individuals were randomised to different screening strategies and all verified using a reference standard were also eligible for inclusion. Studies in which test strategies were compared head-to-head either in the same women, or between randomised groups were identified for inclusion in separate comparisons of test strategies. Studies were excluded if they included less than five Down's syndrome cases, or &gt; 20% of participants were not followed up.</type_of_study>
  <participants>
Pregnant women at between 14 and less than 24 weeks gestation confirmed by ultrasound, who had not undergone previous testing for Down’s syndrome in their pregnancy were eligible. Studies were included if the pregnant women were unselected, or if they represented groups with increased risk of Down’s syndrome, or difficulty with conventional screening tests including maternal age greater than 35 years old, multiple pregnancy, diabetes mellitus and family history of Down’s syndrome.</participants>
  <index_tests>
The following index tests were examined; Alpha feto-protein (AFP), unconjugated oestriol (uE3), total human chorionic gonadotropin (total hCG), free ß human chorionic gonadotropin (free β hCG), free alpha human chorionic gonadotropin (free α hCG), Inhibin A, SP2, CA125, Troponin, pregnancy-associated plasma protein A (PAPP-A), placental growth factor (PGF) and proform of eosinophil major basic protein (ProMBP), and combinations of these markers combined with maternal age. Combinations without maternal age were not analysed, however, information on such test combinations is provided.
We looked at comparisons of tests in isolation and in various combinations. These included single (one marker), double (two markers), triple (three markers), quadruple (four markers) and quintuple (five markers) test strategies, all maternal age-adjusted. We also looked at combinations that included Inhibin A as this has been the most recently routinely introduced marker.
Where tests were used in comparison, we looked at the performance of test comparisons according to predicted probabilities computed using risk equations and dichotomised into high risk and low risk.</index_tests>
  <target_conditions>
Down's syndrome in the fetus due to trisomy, translocation or mosaicism.</target_conditions>
  <reference_standards>
We considered several reference standards, involving chromosomal verification and postnatal macroscopic inspection.
Amniocentesis and CVS are invasive chromosomal verification tests undertaken during pregnancy. They are highly accurate, but the process carries a 1% miscarriage rate, and therefore they are only used in pregnancies considered to be at high risk of Down's syndrome, or on the mother's request. All other types of testing (postnatal examination, postnatal karyotyping, birth registers and Down’s syndrome registers) are based on information available at the end of pregnancy. The greatest concern is not their accuracy, but the loss of the pregnancy to miscarriage between the serum test and the reference standard. Miscarriage with cytogenetic testing of the fetus is included in the reference standard where available. We anticipated that older studies, and studies undertaken in older women are more likely to have used invasive chromosomal verification tests in all women.
Studies undertaken in younger women and more recent studies were likely to use differential verification as they often only used prenatal karyotypic testing on fetuses considered screen positive/high risk according to the screening test; the reference standard for most unaffected infants being observing a phenotypically normal baby. Although the accuracy of this combined reference standard is considered high, it is methodologically a weaker approach as pregnancies that miscarry between the index test and birth are likely to be lost from the analysis, and miscarriage is more likely to occur in Down's than normal pregnancies. We investigated the impact of the likely missing false negative results in sensitivity analyses.</reference_standards>
</root>
