<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<root>
  <objective>
To determine the diagnostic accuracy of diagnostic laparoscopy performed as an add-on test to CT scanning in the assessment of curative resectability in pancreatic and periampullary cancer.
Secondary objectives
We planned to explore the following sources of heterogeneity.
Studies at low risk of bias versus those at unclear or high risk of bias (as assessed by the QUADAS-2 tool, recommended by the Cochrane Diagnostic Test Accuracy Group) (Whiting 2006; Whiting 2011).
Full text publications versus abstracts (this can give a clue about publication bias since there may be an association between the results of the study and the study reaching full publication status (Eloubeidi 2001).
Prospective studies versus retrospective studies.
Proportion of patients with pancreatic cancer, ampullary cancer, and bile duct cancers (although classified as periampullary cancers they each have a different prognosis) (Klempnauer 1995). The additional value of diagnostic laparoscopy may be different because of the extent of spread in these different types of periampullary cancers.
Procedures performed under the same anaesthetic versus procedures performed under a different anaesthetic (there are likely to be differences in the histopathological examinations since the former procedure is associated with frozen section biopsy while the latter procedure is likely to be associated with paraffin section). Paraffin section is considered the gold standard in identifying cancer. Frozen sections can be associated with false negative results (Yeo 2002). However, frozen section results are always confirmed by paraffin section histological examinations.
Different definitions for resectable cancer on laparotomy. Different surgeons may consider cancer unresectable differently i.e. different surgeons will have different criteria for unresectability on laparotomy (other than the consensus criteria for resectability). For example, one surgeon may judge that the cancer is unresectable on laparotomy because of the involvement of the vessel and consider the reference standard to be positive. This will result in a false negative result for laparoscopy. Another surgeon may judge the same cancer to be resectable despite the involvement of the vessel and proceed with resection. The reference standard will be negative in this situation resulting in a true negative result for laparoscopy. This might have an intrinsic threshold effect.
Additional pre-tests performed (besides CT scan). This can alter the pre-test probability of unresectability and can help in the assessment of the additional value of diagnostic laparoscopy under various situations.</objective>
  <type_of_study>
We included studies that evaluated the accuracy of diagnostic laparoscopy in the appropriate patient population (see below) irrespective of language or publication status, or whether data were collected prospectively or retrospectively. However, we excluded case reports which did not provide sufficient diagnostic test accuracy data. We also excluded case-control studies because case-control studies are prone to bias (Whiting 2011).</type_of_study>
  <participants>
Patients about to undergo curative resection for pancreatic and periampullary cancer and found to have no contraindications (such as metastatic disease) for curative resection on CT scan, and who are anaesthetically fit to undergo major surgery.</participants>
  <index_tests>
We included only diagnostic laparoscopy in which histopathological confirmation of metastatic spread was obtained on a paraffin section.</index_tests>
  <target_conditions>
The target conditions were unresectable pancreatic and periampullary cancers, that is diagnostic laparoscopy is considered a positive test if the pancreatic or periampullary cancer was unresectable. In these cancers it is not possible to perform curative resectability. There are no uniform criteria for resectability of pancreatic and periampullary cancer. Consensus exists for the definition of borderline resectable cancers (Abrams 2009). Therefore, where there is less tissue involvement than in a borderline resectable cancer the tumour can be considered as resectable. We accepted any criteria of resectability used by the study authors and acknowledge that this could potentially create a threshold effect. In general, the cancer would not be resected if liver or peritoneal metastases were noted, or if the cancer had invaded important adjacent blood vessels that are beyond the criteria for borderline resectable cancers, for example, greater than 180 ° involvement of the superior mesenteric artery.</target_conditions>
  <reference_standards>
Confirmation of liver or peritoneal involvement by histopathological examination of suspicious (liver or peritoneal) lesions obtained at diagnostic laparoscopy or laparotomy. We accepted only paraffin section histology as the reference standard. In clinical practice, depending on the urgency of the results, a frozen section biopsy may be done to obtain immediate results. However, this is always confirmed by subsequent paraffin section histology (which can take several days) because frozen section biopsy is not as reliable as paraffin section histology. We also accepted the surgeon's judgement of unresectability at laparotomy when biopsy confirmation was not possible. For example, if the tumour has invaded the adjacent blood vessels the surgeon may not resect the tumour because of the danger posed by resecting part of a large blood vessel, and so biopsy confirmation cannot be obtained.
Diagnostic laparoscopy results versus reference standard results
A schematic diagram of the results of diagnostic laparoscopy against those of histopathology or laparotomy is shown in Figure 2. Positive histopathology of a biopsy taken during diagnostic laparoscopy confirms the presence of cancer (true positive). Thus, the index test and the reference standard are one and the same if there is positive histopathology after laparoscopy. As a result, false positives are not possible and there is no sampling error associated with specificity because it is by definition equal to 1. If the histopathology is negative, the surgeon will perform a laparotomy. The cancer may be resectable with curative intent (true negative) or may not be resectable with curative intent (false negative) based on histopathological confirmation or the surgeon's judgement of unresectability on laparotomy if biopsy confirmation cannot be obtained.
Figure 2.
Open in figure viewerDownload Powerpoint slide
Schematic diagram indicating how true positive, false negative, and true negative test results were determined.</reference_standards>
</root>
