<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<root>
  <objective>
To determine the diagnostic test accuracy (DTA) of 18F-florbetapir as the index test for detecting participants with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) at time of performing the test who would clinically progress to Alzheimer's disease dementia (ADD), or other forms of non-ADD, or any form of dementia at follow-up.
Secondary objectives
To investigate the heterogeneity of the DTA in the included studies, by evaluating the spectrum of people, referral centres, clinical criteria of MCI, 18F-florbetapir techniques, reference standards used, duration of follow-up, aspects of study quality, and conflicts of interest.</objective>
  <type_of_study>
We included longitudinal studies that had prospectively defined cohorts with any accepted definition of mild cognitive impairment (MCI), as outlined below, at time of performing the 18F-florbetapir Aβ scan and a reference standard (see Index tests and Reference standards below). We obtained the results at the follow-up of the studies. These studies had to employ delayed verification of progression to dementia and were sometimes labelled as 'delayed verification cross-sectional studies' (Bossuyt 2008; Knottnerus 2002). We included case-control studies when they incorporated a delayed verification design. This occurred in the context of a cohort study, so these studies were invariably diagnostic-nested case-control studies.</type_of_study>
  <participants>
 Participants recruited and clinically classified as having MCI at time of performing the test were eligible for inclusion. We established the diagnosis of MCI using the Petersen criteria or revised Petersen criteria (Petersen 1999; Petersen 2004; Winblad 2004), the criteria included in the Matthews study (Matthews 2008), CDR = 0.5 (CDR structured interviews collects information from both the collateral source and the subject regarding memory, orientation, judgment and problem solving, community affairs, home and hobbies, and personal care, where the range of possible scores varies from none = 0 point to severe = 3 points) (Morris 1993), the National Institute on Aging-Alzheimer's Association (NIA-AA) core clinical criteria (Albert 2011), or a combination.
We excluded studies that included people with MCI possibly caused by any of the following:
Current or a history of alcohol or drug abuse.
Central nervous system (CNS) trauma (e.g. subdural hematoma), tumour, or infection.
Other neurological conditions (e.g. Parkinson’s or Huntington’s diseases). Regarding Parkinson's disease, many of the studies specifically excluded Parkison's disease patients from the group with mild cognitive impairment. This specific group of patients is complex in both regards to defining neuropathology and in determination of functional decline. For these reasons, this group of patients needs to be addressed in specific studies.</participants>
  <index_tests>
The index test of this SR was the 18F-florbetapir biomarker test. We used the criteria and cut-off values for test positivity as reported in the included studies. We considered positivity for 18F-florbetapir Aβ scan uptake and retention exceeding a certain threshold.</index_tests>
  <target_conditions>
There were three target conditions in this SR:
Alzheimer’s disease dementia (ADD) (progression from MCI to ADD).
Any other forms of dementia (progression from MCI to any other forms of non-ADD).
Any form of dementia (progression from MCI to any form of dementia).</target_conditions>
  <reference_standards>
The reference standard was the progression to the target conditions evaluated by a physician with expertise in the dementia field (preferably, a geriatrician, psychiatrist, or neurologist). For the purpose of this SR, we accepted several definitions of ADD. We included studies that applied the National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke and the Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Disorders Association (NINCDS-ADRDA) criteria (McKhann 1984), the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) criteria (APA 1987; APA 1994), and the International Classification of Diseases (ICD) (ICD-10) criteria for ADD. Notably, different iterations of these standards may not be directly comparable over time (e.g. APA 1987 versus APA 1994). Moreover, the validity of the diagnoses may vary with the degree or manner in which the criteria have been operationalised (e.g. individual clinician versus algorithm versus consensus determination). We considered all these issues when we interpreted the results.
Similarly, we accepted differing clinical definitions of other dementias. For Lewy body dementia, the reference standard is the McKeith criteria (McKeith 1996; McKeith 2005); for frontotemporal dementia, the Lund criteria (Boxer 2005; Brun 1994; Neary 1998), the DSM criteria (APA 1987; APA 1994), the ICD criteria (ICD-10), or the International Behavioural Variant FTD Criteria Consortium (Rascovsky 2011); and for vascular dementia, the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke and Association Internationale pour la Recherché et l'Enseignement en Neurosciences (NINDS-AIREN) criteria (Román 1993), the DSM criteria (APA 1987; APA 1994), or the ICD criteria (ICD-10).
The time interval over which progression from MCI to ADD (or other forms of dementia) occurs is very important. We used one year as the minimum period of delay in the verification of the diagnosis (the time between the assessment at which a diagnosis of MCI is made and the assessment at which the diagnosis of dementia is made).</reference_standards>
</root>
