<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<root>
  <objective>
Primary 
1. To provide summary estimates of the diagnostic accuracy of urinary biomarkers for the diagnosis of pelvic endometriosis (peritoneal or ovarian or deep infiltrating, or a combination thereof) compared to surgical diagnosis as a reference standard.
2. To assess the diagnostic utility of biomarkers that could differentiate ovarian endometrioma from other ovarian masses.
Urinary biomarkers were evaluated as replacement tests for diagnostic surgery as well as triage tests which would assist decision-making to undertake diagnostic surgery for endometriosis.
Secondary objectives
1. To investigate the influence of heterogeneity on the diagnostic accuracy of urinary biomarkers for endometriosis. Potential sources of heterogeneity include:
Characteristics of the study population: age (adolescents vs. later reproductive years); clinical presentation (subfertility, pelvic pain, ovarian mass, asymptomatic women); stage of disease (rASRM classification system); geographic location of study;
Histological confirmation in conjunction with laparoscopic visualisation compared to laparoscopic visualisation alone;
Changes in technology over time: year of publication; modifications applied to conventional laboratory techniques;
Methodological quality: differences in the QUADAS-2 (Quality Assessment of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies-2) evaluation (Table 3), including a) low versus unclear or high risk; b) consecutive versus non-consecutive enrolment; c) blinding of surgeons to the results of index tests;
Table 3. Application of the QUADAS-2 tool for assessment of methodological quality of the included studies
Domain 1 - Patient selection
Description Describe methods of patient selection and included patients
Type of bias assessed Selection bias, spectrum bias
Review Question Women of reproductive age with clinically suspected endometriosis (symptoms, clinical examination ± presence of pelvic mass), scheduled for surgical exploration of pelvic/abdominal cavity for confirmation of the diagnosis ± treatment
Informaton collected Study objectives, study population, selection (inclusion and exclusion criteria), study design, clinical presentation, age, number of participants enrolled and number of participants available for analysis, setting, place and period of the study
Signalling question 1 Was a consecutive or random sample of patients enrolled?
Yes If a consecutive sample or a random sample of the eligible patients was included in the study
No If non-consecutive sample or non-random sample of the eligible patients was included in the study
Unclear If this information was unclear
Signalling question 2 Did the study avoid inappropriate exclusions?
Yes If inclusion/exclusion criteria were presented and all patients with suspected endometriosis were included, with an exception for those who a) had a history of medical conditions or were on medical therapy that would have potentially interfered with interpretation of index test (e.g. malignancy, pregnancy, autoimmune disorders, infectious diseases, treatment with hormonal or immunomodulator substances); b) refused to participate in the study; or c) were unfit for surgery
No If the study excluded the patients based on education level, psychosocial factors, genetic testing or phenotype or excluded patients with any co-morbidities commonly present in general population, including a population that could have undergone a testing for endometriosis in clinical setting (hypertension, asthma, obesity, benign gastro-intestinal or renal disease, etc)
Unclear If the study did not provide clear definition of the selection (inclusion or exclusion) criteria and 'no' judgement was not applicable
Signalling question 3 Was a 'two-gate' design avoided?
Yes If the study had a single set of inclusion criteria, defined by the clinical presentation (i.e. only participants in whom the target condition is suspected) - a ‘single-gate’ study design
No If the study had more than one set of inclusion criteria in respect to clinical presentation (i.e. participants suspected of target condition and participants with alternative diagnosis in whom the target condition would not be suspected in clinical practice) - a 'two-gate' study design
Unclear If it was unclear whether a 'two-gate deign' was avoided or not
Risk of bias Could the selection of patients have introduced bias?
Low If 'yes' classification for all the above 3 questions
High If 'no' classification for any of the above 3 questions
Unclear If 'unclear' classification for 3 of the above questions and 'high risk' judgement was not applicable
Concerns about applicability Are there concerns that the included patients do not match the review question?
Low If the study includes only clinically relevant population that would have undergone index test in real practice and includes representative form of target condition
High If the study population differed from the population defined in the review question in terms of demographic features and co-morbidity (e.g. studies with multiple sets of inclusion criteria with respect to clinical presentation including either healthy controls or alternative diagnosis controls that would not have undergone index test in real practice). Further, if target condition diagnosed in the study population was not representative of the entire spectrum of disease, such as limited spectrum of severity (e.g. only mild forms) or limited type of endometriosis (e.g. only DIE)
Unclear If this information was unclear (e.g. severity of endometriosis was not reported)
Domain 2 - Index test
Description Describe the index test, how it was conducted and interpreted
Type of bias assessed Test review bias, clinical review bias, interobserver variation bias
Review Question Any type of urinary biomarkers
Informaton collected Index test name, description of positive case definition by index test as reported, threshold for positive result, examiners (number, level of expertise, blinding), interobserver variability, conflict of interests
Signalling question 1 Were the index test results interpreted without knowledge of the results of the reference standard?
Yes If the operators performing or interpreting index test were unaware of the results of reference standard
No If the operators performing or interpreting index test were not blinded to the results of reference standard
Unclear If this information was unclear
Signalling question 2 If a threshold was used, was it pre-specified?
Yes If study clearly provided a threshold for positive result and was defined before execution or interpretation of index test
No If a threshold for positive result was not provided or not defined prior to test execution
Unclear If it was unclear whether a threshold was pre-specified or not
Signalling question 3 Was a menstrual cycle phase considered in interpreting the index test?
Yes If all the included participants were in the same phase of menstrual cycle or if the study reported subgroup analyses per cycle phase or if study reported the pooled estimates after impact of the cycle phase on biomarker expression was not detected
No If study included participants in different phases of menstrual cycle, but effect of cycle phase on index test was not assessed
Unclear If the cycle phase was not reported
Risk of bias Could the conduct or interpretation of the index test have introduced bias?
Low If 'yes' classification for all the above 3 questions
High If 'no' classification for any of the above 3 questions
Unclear If 'unclear' classification for any of the above 3 questions and 'high risk' judgement was not applicable
Concerns about applicability Are there concerns that the index test, its conduct, or interpretation differ from the review question?
Low We considered all types of urinary biomarkers as eligible; therefore all the included studies were classified as 'low concern', unless 'unclear' judgement was applicable
High We did not consider the studies where index tests other than urinary biomarkers were included (or excluded information on other index tests reported in addition to urine tests) or where index test looked at other target conditions not specified in the review (e.g. studies aimed at classifying pelvic masses as benign and malignant); therefore none of the included studies was classified as 'high concern'
Unclear If study did not present sufficient information on at least one of the following: laboratory method, sample handling, reagents used, experience of the test operators
Domain 3 - Reference standard
Description Describe the reference standard, how it was conducted and interpreted
Type of bias assessed Verification bias, bias in estimation of diagnostic accuracy due to inadequate reference standard
Review Question Target condition - pelvic endometriosis, ovarian endometriosis, DIE. Reference standard - visualisation of endometriosis at surgery (laparoscopy or laparotomy) with or without histological confirmation
Informaton collected Target condition, prevalence of target condition in the sample, reference standard, description of positive case definition by reference test as reported, examiners (number, level of expertise, blinding)
Signalling question 1 Were the reference standards likely to correctly classify the target condition?
Yes If the study reported at least one of the following: surgical procedure was described in sufficient details; or criteria for positive reference standard were stated; or diagnosis was confirmed by histopathology; or the procedure was performed by the team with high level of expertise in diagnosis/surgical treatment of target condition, including tertiary referral centres for endometriosis
No If reference standard did not classify target condition correctly; considering the inclusion criteria and a nature of the reference standard, none of the studies were classified as 'no' for this item
Unclear If information on execution of the reference standard, its interpretation or operators was unclear
Signalling question 2 Were the reference standard results interpreted without knowledge of the results of the index tests?
Yes If operators performing the reference test were unaware of the results of index test
No If operators performing the reference test were aware of the results of index test
Unclear If this information was unclear
Risk of bias Could the reference standard, its conduct, or its interpretation have introduced bias?
Low If 'yes' classification for all the above 2 questions
High If 'no' classification for any of the above 2 questions
Unclear If 'unclear' classification for any of the above 2 questions and 'high risk' judgement was not applicable
Concerns about applicability Are there concerns that the target condition as defined by the reference standard does not match the question?
Low Considering the inclusion criteria, all the studies were classified as 'low concern', therefore all the included studies were classified as 'low concern'
High We excluded the studies where participants did not undergo surgery for diagnosis of endometriosis, therefore none of the included studies were classified as 'high concern'
Unclear Only studies were laparoscopy/laparotomy served as a reference test were included; therefore none of the included studies was classified as 'unclear concern'
Domain 4 - Flow and timing
Description Describe any patients who did not receive the index tests or reference standard or who were excluded from the 2 x 2 table, describe the interval and any interventions between index tests (sample collection) and the reference standard
Type of bias assessed Disease progression bias, bias of diagnostic performance due to missing data
Review Question Less than 12 months interval between index test (sample collection) and reference standard - endometriosis may progress over time, so we had chosen an arbitrary time interval of 12 months as an acceptable time interval between the sample collection and surgical confirmation of diagnosis
Informaton collected Time interval between index test (sample collection) and reference standard, withdrawals (overall number reported and if were explained)
Signalling question 1 Was there an appropriate interval between index test (sample collection) and reference standard?
Yes If time interval was reported and was less than 12 months
No We excluded all the studies where time interval was longer than 12 months, therefore none of the included studies were classified as 'no' for this item
Unclear If time interval was not stated clearly, but authors' description allowed to assume that the interval was reasonably short
Signalling question 2 Did all women receive the same reference standard?
Yes If all participants underwent laparoscopy or laparotomy as a reference standard; considering the inclusion criteria, all the studies were classified as 'yes' for this item, as anticipated
No If all participants did not undergo surgery or had alternative reference standard or if only a subset of participants had surgery as reference standard, but the information on this population was not available in isolation; considering the inclusion criteria, none of the included studies were classified as 'no' for this item
Unclear If this information was unclear; considering the inclusion criteria, none of the included studies were classified as 'unclear' for this item
Signalling question 3 Were all women included in the analysis?
Yes If all the women were included in the analysis or if women were excluded because they did not meet inclusion criteria prior to execution of index test or if the withdrawals were less than 5% of the enrolled population (arbitrary selected cut-off)
No If any patients were excluded from the analysis because of un interpretable results, inability to undergo either index test or reference standard or for unclear reasons
Unclear If this information was unclear
Risk of bias Could the patient flow have introduced bias?
Low If 'yes' classification for all the above 3 questions
High If 'no' classification for any of the above 3 questions
Unclear If 'unclear' classification for any of the above 3 questions and 'high risk' judgement was not applicable
Study design ('single-gate design' vs. 'two-gate design' studies).
2. To assess biomarkers which were not affected by endometriosis and hence were unlikely to discriminate between women with and without the disease.</objective>
  <type_of_study>
Published peer-reviewed studies that compared the results of one or several types of urinary biomarkers with the results obtained by surgical diagnosis of endometriosis. Studies were included if they were:
Randomised controlled trials;
Observational studies of the following designs:
‘Single-gate design’ (studies with a single set of inclusion criteria defined by clinical presentation). All participants had clinically suspected endometriosis.
‘Two-gate design’ (studies where participants are sampled from distinct populations with respect to clinical presentation). The same study includes participants with a clinical suspicion of having the target condition (e.g. women with pelvic pain) and also participants in whom the target condition is not suspected (e.g. women admitted for tubal ligation). Two-gate studies were eligible only where all cases and controls belonged to the same population in respect to the reference standard (i.e. all the participants were scheduled for laparoscopy) (Rutjes 2005).
Performed on prospectively collected samples, irrespective of the actual time of the test assay. The timing of sample collection relative to surgery is important because the surgical excision of endometriotic lesions could influence urine biomarker expression and hence bias the results. Therefore, we only included studies where urine was collected before the surgical procedure, i.e. 'prospectively collected'. The studies performed on tissue bank samples collected from prospectively recruited, well-defined populations were considered eligible, which prevented the omission of valuable data from adequately designed studies. The time interval between sample collection and laboratory testing may influence test outcomes which could be dependent on sample storage conditions and the stability of each individual biomarker during storage and freeze/thawing. This information was not readily available for most molecules and was not addressed in this review, but will be considered in future updates if more evidence emerges.
Performed in any healthcare setting;
Published in any language;
We did not impose a minimal limit on the number of participants in the included studies nor the number of studies that have evaluated each index test.
The following studies were excluded:
Study design:
Narrative or systematic reviews;
Studies of retrospective design where the sample collection was performed after execution of reference test;
Studies of retrospective design where the participants were selected from retrospective review of the case notes/archived samples and information on recruitment methods or study population was not available;
Case reports or case series;
Studies reported only in abstract form or in conference proceedings where the full text was not available. This limitation was applied when we faced substantial difficulty in obtaining the information from the abstracts, which precluded a reliable assessment of eligibility and methodological quality.</type_of_study>
  <participants>
Study participants included reproductive-aged women (puberty to menopause) with suspected endometriosis based on clinical symptoms or pelvic examination, or both, who undertook both the index test and reference standard.
The participants were selected from populations of women undergoing abdominal surgery for the following indications: 1) clinically suspected endometriosis (pelvic pain, infertility, abnormal pelvic examination, or a combination of the above), 2) ovarian mass regardless of symptoms, 3) a mixed group, which consists of women with suspected endometriosis/ovarian mass or women with other benign gynaecological conditions (e.g. surgical sterilisation, fibroid uterus, etc). Asymptomatic women who have an incidental finding of endometriosis at surgery performed for another indication were also included
Articles that included participants of postmenopausal age were eligible when the data for the reproductive age group was available in isolation. Studies were excluded when the study population involved participants who clearly would not undergo the index test in a clinical scenario or would not benefit from the test (e.g. women with ectopic pregnancies, gynaecological malignancy or acute pelvic inflammatory disease). We also excluded publications where only a subset of participants with a positive index test or reference standard were included in the analysis and the data for the whole cohort were not available.</participants>
  <index_tests>
Any type of urinary biomarker for endometriosis was assessed either separately or in combination with other urine tests. The assessed index tests are presented in Table 2. We included the tests performed in one or several phases of menstrual cycle.
The combined evaluations of urinary biomarkers with other methods for diagnosing endometriosis (e.g. pelvic examination, imaging, blood or endometrial tests) are beyond the scope of this review and are presented separately in another review 'Combined tests for the non-invasive diagnosis of endometriosis'. The studies that solely assessed specific technical aspects, qualitative descriptions of lesion appearance or inter-observer variability of the index tests without reporting the data on diagnostic performance were excluded from the review. When the evaluated biomarker(s) showed differential expression between the groups of women with and without endometriosis, the publication was considered only if the data were reported with sufficient detail for the construction of 2 x 2 contingency tables. However, when the contingency tables were not available because the expression level of index test did not significantly differ between the groups and the inclusion criteria were otherwise met, a critical appraisal was undertaken and the study was presented in the descriptive part of the review. Thus the adequately designed studies that identified biomarkers without diagnostic value were evaluated as they provide information that is likely to focus future research on other more clinically useful biomarkers. This methodology also identified biomarkers which were associated with endometriosis in some but not other publications. Evaluations of screening or predictive accuracy tests were not included in this review.
The diagnostic performance of an index test was considered to be high when the test reached the criteria for a replacement test (sensitivity of equal or greater than 94% with specificity of equal or greater than 79%) or triage test (sensitivity of equal or greater than 95% with specificity of equal or greater than 50% or vice versa), or approached these criteria (diagnostic estimates within 5% of the set thresholds). All other diagnostic estimates were considered to be low.</index_tests>
  <target_conditions>
Pelvic endometriosis, defined as endometrial tissue located in the pelvic cavity: any of the pelvic organs, peritoneum and pouch of Douglas. Three types of pelvic endometriosis were assessed:
1. Peritoneal endometriosis, defined as endometrial deposits detected on peritoneum covering pelvic organs, pelvic side walls or pouch of Douglas;
2. Ovarian endometriosis (endometrioma), defined as an ovarian cyst lined by endometrial tissue and appearing as an ovarian mass of varying size;
3. Deep infiltrating endometriosis (DIE), defined as subperitoneal infiltration of endometrial implants, i.e. when the endometriotic implants penetrate the retroperitoneal space for a distance of 5 mm or more (Koninckx 1991). DIE may be present in multiple locations, involving either anterior or posterior pelvic compartments, or both.
Certain rare types of endometriosis such as extrapelvic, bladder and ureteric endometriosis were not included in this review because the majority were reported in case reports or case series and laparoscopy or laparotomy are not reliable reference standards for these conditions.
We excluded the studies where diagnosis of endometriosis was not the primary outcome of the trial (e.g. malignant vs benign masses or normal vs. abnormal pelvis) and the separate data for endometriosis were not available.
We also excluded the studies where the findings of the index test formed the basis of selection for the reference standard, because this was likely to distort an assessment of the diagnostic value of index test.
We included studies that recruited selected populations of women with endometriosis (i.e. those with specific rASRM stages), because there is a poor correlation between the rASRM classification and infertility and pain symptoms. Exclusion of these studies could result in a loss of potentially important diagnostic information from otherwise eligible publications. Where possible the impact of these studies was addressed in the assessments of heterogeneity. When a study analysed a large population with a wide spectrum of endometriosis and additionally reported a sub-group analysis of the different stages of disease severity, only estimates for the entire population were considered, because a subgroup analysis does not directly address the review question regarding the clinical utility of the biomarker in detecting the disease.</target_conditions>
  <reference_standards>
The reference standard was visualisation of endometriosis at surgery (laparoscopy or laparotomy) with or without histological confirmation, as this is currently the best available test for endometriosis. Information regarding the inter- and intra-observer correlation of the reference standard was reviewed if reported.
Only studies in which the reference test was performed within 12 months of the urine sample collection were included, on the assumption that disease status could change within a period of one year or longer, either naturally or as a result of treatment. Studies in which the participants did not undergo the reference standard or where the findings of the index test formed the basis of selection for undertaking the reference standard were not included in this review.
</reference_standards>
</root>
