<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<root>
  <objective>
To assess the diagnostic test accuracy of various techniques using traceable agents for sentinel lymph node assessment to diagnose groin lymph node metastasis in women with FIGO stage IB or higher vulval cancer and to investigate sources of heterogeneity.</objective>
  <type_of_study>
We included all prospective and retrospective studies that compared and reported diagnostic test accuracy statistics of sentinel node assessment (detection and histological examination) with the reference standard of histological examination of inguinofemoral lymph node dissection (IFL). We included studies that reported the number of sentinel node procedures (each side counted separately; so-called 'per groin' data) and the number of women who underwent a sentinel node procedure (whereby a bilateral sentinel node procedure was reported as one case; so-called 'per woman' data), provided that we could construct two-by-two tables of these data. We excluded studies reporting fewer than 10 sentinel node procedures, as well as studies for which construction of a two-by-two table for either 'per groin' or 'per woman' data was not possible. For studies that included women with clinically suspicious, palpable or metastases-positive groin nodes, we attempted to exclude these women from the extracted data. Where this was not possible, we excluded studies in which these cases exceeded 10% of the total numbers of women or groins assessed.</type_of_study>
  <participants>
Women diagnosed with International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) stage IB or higher vulval cancer without clinically suspicious nodes. We considered all ages, histological types of tumour, and all techniques and settings of sentinel node detection, dissection and histological examination in this review.</participants>
  <index_tests>
Tracer agents used to identify sentinel nodes for histological assessment.
We expected that trial reports should specify accurately the technique used and include the following:
Description of agent
Technique, amount, location and timing of injection of agent
Method used to trace and detect sentinel node
Definition of what was regarded as a sentinel node
Description of the histological method used to assess the sentinel node
A sentinel node should have been defined as the first lymph node that showed adequate concentration of tracing agent (e.g. greatest radioactive signal in groin basin detected on hand-held gamma probe in case of radioactive tracer agent, or a node that appeared visually blue intra-operatively) (de Hullu 1998). The sentinel node should then have been removed and subjected to standard histological examination or by frozen section with at least haematoxylin and eosin (H&amp;E) staining. If the sentinel node was found to be malignant, it was defined as a positive sentinel node. If a sentinel node did not show any malignancy, it was defined as a negative sentinel node. If a sentinel node could not be identified, it was defined as 'failure to detect sentinel node' (and not index test negative). Details of reason for failure to detect sentinel nodes should also have been reported where possible, along with the outcome of lymph node status on reference standard.
A complete groin lymph node dissection (IFL) would include the sentinel node in the specimen, thus creating a situation where the index test result becomes part of the reference standard (incorporation). Realistically, therefore, false positive tests would not exist in this situation (see Figure 2). In an event where the sentinel node was identified, assessed and deemed histologically positive but the remaining groin nodes were negative, the index test would still be regarded as a true positive. We did not anticipate that false positive tests would be reported in the included studies, but if we encountered them, unless further information was available from the author to create a protocol-compliant two-by-two table, we planned to exclude them from the review.
Figure 2.
Open in figure viewerDownload Powerpoint slide
Possible outcomes of sentinel lymph node assessment followed by total groin lymph node removal (inguinofemoral lymphadenectomy). (A) Negative sentinel and rest of the groin nodes (True negative), (B) Positive sentinel node but negative rest of the groin nodes (True positive), (C) Positive sentinel and groin nodes (True positive) and (D) Negative sentinel but positive groin nodes (False negative)
We anticipated that many studies would report a combination of various sentinel node assessment techniques (mixed tests). When analysing the diagnostic test accuracy of a single technique, we only included these studies in the analyses if a separate two-by-two table for the technique in question could be constituted. Similarly, not all women received combined techniques (i.e. blue dye and technetium) in these studies. When analysing the diagnostic test accuracy of the combined technique, these studies were only included in the analyses if all cases received the combined technique in question, or a separate two-by-two table for cases who received the combined technique in question could be constituted. Where possible, we attempted to obtain separate diagnostic test accuracy data from investigators of studies in which different index test data had been combined.
Figure 2.
Open in figure viewerDownload Powerpoint slide
Possible outcomes of sentinel lymph node assessment followed by total groin lymph node removal (inguinofemoral lymphadenectomy). (A) Negative sentinel and rest of the groin nodes (True negative), (B) Positive sentinel node but negative rest of the groin nodes (True positive), (C) Positive sentinel and groin nodes (True positive) and (D) Negative sentinel but positive groin nodes (False negative)</index_tests>
  <target_conditions>Target conditions
Groin (inguinofemoral) lymph node metastases in FIGO stage IB or higher vulval cancer.</target_conditions>
  <reference_standards>Histological examination of systematic groin lymph node dissection (IFL) was the reference standard. The reference standard was to be subjected to the standard histological assessment with at least H&E staining. If any of the removed nodes (including the sentinel node) showed cancer metastasis histologically, the reference standard was considered positive. Studies were to report the reference standard result by each side of groin node removal or by women/cases.

Systematic groin lymph node removal includes removal of inguinal and femoral lymph nodes. Traditionally this includes removal of lymph nodes above and parallel to the inguinal ligament up to the pubic tubercle medially and lymph nodes from the femoral triangle (parallel to femoral vessels and sapheno‐femoral junction including cribriform fascia) up to and including the deep fascia of muscle forming the base of the femoral triangle. Dissection deeper to the deep fascia or into the adductor canal is usually not required. However, there remains some uncertainty regarding the ideal extent and adequacy of surgical dissection (Hudson 2004).</reference_standards>
</root>
