<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<root>
  <objective>
To determine the diagnostic accuracy of the 11C- PIB-PET scan as the index test for detecting participants with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) at baseline who would clinically convert to Alzheimer’s disease dementia (ADD) or other forms of dementia at follow-up.
Secondary objectives
To investigate the heterogeneity of the test accuracy in the included studies.</objective>
  <type_of_study>
We considered longitudinal studies that had prospectively defined cohorts with any accepted definition of MCI with baseline 11C-PIB-PET scan and the reference standard results obtained at follow-up (see Index tests and Reference standards below). These studies necessarily employ delayed verification of conversion to dementia and are sometimes labelled as 'delayed verification cross-sectional studies' (Knotnerus 2002; Bossuyt 2008). 
We included case control studies when they incorporated a delayed verification design. This occurred in the context of a cohort study, so these studies are invariably diagnostic nested case-control studies.</type_of_study>
  <participants>
 recruited and clinically classified as those with MCI at baseline were eligible for this review. The diagnosis of MCI was established using the Petersen criteria or revised Petersen criteria (Petersen 1999; Petersen 2004; Winblad 2004), the Matthews 2008 criteria, or CDR = 0.5 (Morris 1993), or a combination. These criteria include: subjective complaints; a decline in memory objectively verified by neuropsychological testing in combination with a history from the patient; a decline in other cognitive domains; no or minimal impairment of activities of daily living; not meeting the criteria for dementia. Therefore, the eligible participants had a number of tests, for example neuropsychological tests for cognitive deficit and checklists for activities of daily living, prior to study entry.  in some studies were defined as amnestic single domain, amnestic multiple domain, non-amnestic single domain, non-amnestic multiple domain, or non-specified MCI participants. We considered these studies for inclusion. We also considered studies without reference to a particular source of recruitment (participant setting) for inclusion.
We excluded studies that involved patients with MCI possibly caused by: i) current or a history of alcohol or drug abuse; ii) central nervous system (CNS) trauma (for example subdural haematoma), tumour, or infection; iii) other neurological conditions (for example Parkinson’s or Huntington’s diseases).</participants>
  <index_tests>
11C-PIB-PET imaging test
We used the criteria that were applied in each included primary study to classify participants as either 11C-PIB positive or 11C-PIB negative. We considered positivity as 11C-PIB ligand uptake and retention exceeding a certain threshold.</index_tests>
  <target_conditions>
There were two target conditions in this review:
Alzheimer’s disease dementia (ADD) (conversion from MCI to ADD);
Any other forms of dementia (conversion from MCI to any other forms of dementia).</target_conditions>
  <reference_standards>
The reference standard was progression to the target conditions. For the purpose of this review, several definitions of ADD were acceptable. Included studies applied probable or possible National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke and the Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association (now known as the Alzheimer's Association) (NINCDS-ADRDA) criteria (McKhann 1984). The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) (DSMIII 1987; DSMIV 1994) and International Classification of Diseases (ICD) (World Health Organization 2010) definitions for ADD were also acceptable.
Similarly, differing clinical definitions of other dementias were acceptable. For Lewy body dementia the reference standard is the McKeith criteria (McKeith 1996; McKeith 2005); for frontotemporal dementia (FTD) the Lund criteria (Neary 1988; Brun 1994; Boxer 2005), DSM (DSMIII 1987; DSMIV 1994), ICD (World Health Organization 2010); and for vascular dementia the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke and Association Internationale pour la Recherché et l'Enseignement en Neurosciences (NINDS ARIEN) criteria (Roman 1993), DSM (DSMIII 1987; DSMIV 1994), and ICD (World Health Organization 2010).
The time interval over which progression from MCI to ADD or other forms of dementia occurred is very important. We chose one year as the minimum period of delay in the verification of the diagnosis (that is the time between the assessment at which a diagnosis of MCI is made and the assessment at which the diagnosis of dementia is made). We planned to segment analyses into separate follow-up mean periods for the delay in verification: one year to less than two years; two to less than four years; and greater than four years. In this eventuality we planned to clearly note where the same included studies contributed to the analysis for more than one reference standard follow-up interval.</reference_standards>
</root>
