<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<root>
  <objective>
The aim of this review was to estimate and compare the accuracy of first trimester serum markers for the detection of Down’s syndrome in the antenatal period, both as individual markers and as combinations of markers. Accuracy is described by the proportion of fetuses with Down’s syndrome detected by screening before birth (sensitivity or detection rate), and the proportion of women with a low risk (normal) screening test result who subsequently had a baby unaffected by Down's syndrome (specificity).
Investigation of sources of heterogeneity
We planned to investigate whether a uniform screening test is suitable for all women, or whether different screening methods are more applicable to different groups, defined by advanced maternal age, ethnic groups and aspects of the pregnancy and medical history such as multiple pregnancy, diabetes and family history of Down's syndrome. We also considered whether there existed evidence of overestimation of test accuracy in studies evaluating risk equations in the derivation sample rather than in a separate validation sample.</objective>
  <type_of_study>
We included studies in which all women from a given population had one or more index test(s) compared to a reference standard. Both consecutive series and diagnostic case-control study designs were included. Randomised trials where individuals were randomised to different screening strategies and all verified using a reference standard were also eligible for inclusion. Studies in which test strategies were compared head-to-head, either in the same women, or between randomised groups were identified for inclusion in separate comparisons of test strategies. Studies were excluded if they included less than five Down's syndrome cases, or more than 20% of participants were not followed up.</type_of_study>
  <participants>
Pregnant women at less than 14 weeks' gestation confirmed by ultrasound, who had not undergone previous testing for Down’s syndrome in their pregnancy were eligible. Studies were included if the pregnant women were unselected, or if they represented groups with increased risk of Down’s syndrome, or difficulty with conventional screening tests including maternal age greater than 35 years old, multiple pregnancy, diabetes mellitus and family history of Down’s syndrome.</participants>
  <index_tests>
The following 18 index tests were examined; ADAM12, AFP, inhibin, PAPP-A, ITA, free βhCG, PlGF, SP1, total hCG, progesterone, uE3, GHBP, PGH, hyperglycosylated hCG, ProMBP, hPL, free αhCG, and free ßhCG to AFP ratio, and combinations of these markers combined with maternal age.
We looked at comparisons of tests used in isolation and in 78 various combinations. These included single (one marker), double (two markers), triple (three markers), quadruple (four markers) and quintuple (five markers) tests, some of which were adjusted for maternal age.
Where tests were used in combination, we looked at the performance of test combinations according to predicted probabilities computed using risk equations and dichotomised into high risk and low risk.</index_tests>
  <target_conditions>
Down's syndrome in the fetus due to trisomy, translocation or mosaicism.</target_conditions>
  <reference_standards>
We considered several reference standards, involving chromosomal verification and postnatal macroscopic inspection. Chromosomal verification is considered preferential but because of the risks involved, often not feasible. Where macroscopic inspection or examination raises a question about the possibility of an individual being affected by Down's syndrome, in clinical practice this is usually confirmed or refuted by formal karyotyping.
Amniocentesis and CVS are invasive chromosomal verification tests undertaken during pregnancy. They are highly accurate but the process carries a 1% miscarriage rate, and therefore they are only used in pregnancies considered to be high risk of Down's, or on the mother's request. All other types of testing (postnatal examination, postnatal karyotyping, birth registers and Down’s syndrome registers) are based on information available at the end of pregnancy. For the purposes of meta-analysis they are considered equivalent. The greatest concern is not their accuracy, but the loss of the pregnancy to miscarriage between the timing of serum testing and the reference standard. Miscarriage with cytogenetic testing of the fetus is included in the reference standard where available.
We anticipated that older studies, and studies undertaken in older women were more likely to have used invasive chromosomal verification tests in all women. Studies undertaken in younger women and more recent studies were likely to use differential verification as they often only used prenatal karyotypic testing on fetuses considered screen positive or high risk according to the screening test; the reference standard for most unaffected infants is likely to be observation of a phenotypically normal baby. Although the accuracy of this combined reference standard is considered high, it is methodologically a weaker approach because pregnancies that miscarry between the index test and birth are likely to be lost from the analysis, and miscarriage is more likely to occur in Down’s than normal pregnancies.</reference_standards>
</root>
