<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<root>
  <objective>
To determine the diagnostic accuracy of capsule endoscopy for the diagnosis of oesophageal varices in children or adults with chronic liver disease or portal vein thrombosis, irrespective of the aetiology. To investigate the accuracy of capsule endoscopy as triage or replacement of oesophago-gastro-duodenoscopy.
Secondary objectives
To determine the diagnostic accuracy of capsule endoscopy for the diagnosis of medium oesophageal varices, large oesophageal varices, and presence of red marks on the varices.
The following study characteristics, oesophageal varices, paediatric compared to adult participants, chronic liver disease compared to portal vein thrombosis, different stages of liver disease severity, different aetiologies of liver disease (e.g., viral cirrhosis compared with alcoholic cirrhosis; cholestatic compared to non-cholestatic liver disease), prevalence of oesophageal varices in the study group, and co-morbidities, were considered as sources of heterogeneity.</objective>
  <type_of_study>
We aimed to include studies that, irrespective of publication status and language, evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of capsule endoscopy for the diagnosis of oesophageal varices using oesophago-gastro-duodenoscopy as the reference standard. We considered cross-sectional cohort design studies on people with clinical suspicion of portal hypertension as well as participant-control design studies that compared people with oesophageal varices with matched controls (Colli 2014).
We excluded studies in which data were analysed only per varix rather than per participant unless the participant data were made available by study authors.</type_of_study>
  <participants>
 could be of any age in whom the presence of oesophageal varices was clinically suspected (screening cohort) based on chronic liver disease or portal vein thrombosis, irrespective of the aetiology and duration of illness. We also considered people with previous history of upper gastrointestinal bleeding or already diagnosed oesophageal varices (surveillance cohort) for our review as these participants are a distinct group in whom the presence of oesophageal varices has a very higher probability than in a screening cohort, and when they participated in the studies, we analysed their data separately.
We excluded studies with people with a previous surgical portal-systemic shunt procedure or insertion of transjugular intrahepatic portal-systemic shunt, previous ligation, or sclerotherapy of oesophageal varices.</participants>
  <index_tests>
Capsule endoscopy
The video capsule endoscope is a wireless capsule comprised of a light source, lens, imaging hardware, battery, and a wireless transmitter, designed to investigate the oesophagus. The capsule is swallowed; it moves down the oesophagus via peristalsis. To improve the oesophagus visualisation, the device can be modified by attaching a string to control movement up and down the oesophagus (string capsule). The capsule obtains photographs at high frequency that are transmitted to a recorder, worn on a belt. The photographs are downloaded into a computer and can be viewed individually or as a video.
There is a variety of classifications reported for oesophageal varices observed with capsule endoscopy, with no current consensus. The reported methods for evaluating the size of the oesophageal varices with capsule endoscopy are frequently identical to oesophago-gastro-duodenoscopy in spite of the lack of air inflation (which is not possible with the capsule endoscopy). To standardise the classification for the purposes of this review, oesophageal varices observed with capsule endoscopy were dichotomised in the following way: absence or presence of varices; and, small compared to medium or large varices. A small varix is said to occupy less than 25% and a medium/large varix to occupy more than 25% of the radius of the lumen of the oesophagus. The description of red marks on the varices follows the criteria used for oesophago-gastro-duodenoscopy: raised cherry-red spots (dilated sub-epithelial veins) and red wale marking (longitudinal dilated veins resembling whip marks).</index_tests>
  <target_conditions>Capsule endoscopy
The video capsule endoscope is a wireless capsule comprised of a light source, lens, imaging hardware, battery, and a wireless transmitter, designed to investigate the oesophagus. The capsule is swallowed; it moves down the oesophagus via peristalsis. To improve the oesophagus visualisation, the device can be modified by attaching a string to control movement up and down the oesophagus (string capsule). The capsule obtains photographs at high frequency that are transmitted to a recorder, worn on a belt. The photographs are downloaded into a computer and can be viewed individually or as a video.
There is a variety of classifications reported for oesophageal varices observed with capsule endoscopy, with no current consensus. The reported methods for evaluating the size of the oesophageal varices with capsule endoscopy are frequently identical to oesophago-gastro-duodenoscopy in spite of the lack of air inflation (which is not possible with the capsule endoscopy). To standardise the classification for the purposes of this review, oesophageal varices observed with capsule endoscopy were dichotomised in the following way: absence or presence of varices; and, small compared to medium or large varices. A small varix is said to occupy less than 25% and a medium/large varix to occupy more than 25% of the radius of the lumen of the oesophagus. The description of red marks on the varices follows the criteria used for oesophago-gastro-duodenoscopy: raised cherry-red spots (dilated sub-epithelial veins) and red wale marking (longitudinal dilated veins resembling whip marks).</target_conditions>
  <reference_standards>Target conditions
The presence of any oesophageal varices (independent of size), detected by oesophago-gastro-duodenoscopy. For secondary analyses, the presence of medium or large varices (Garcia-Tsao 2007), and the presence of red marks were considered the target conditions.</reference_standards>
</root>
