<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<root>
  <objective>
To determine the diagnostic accuracy of HRT, OCT and GDx for diagnosing manifest glaucoma by detecting ONH and RNFL damage.
Secondary objectives
To determine which morphometric measure or diagnostic algorithm yields the highest diagnostic accuracy within each device.
To compare the relative diagnostic accuracy of the three devices.
To explore potential causes of heterogeneity of diagnostic performance across studies.
We planned to investigate the following sources of clinical heterogeneity:
A. Heterogeneity related to the choice of reference standard: type of reference standard (optic disc assessment, visual field, or both); definitions of visual field damage.
B. Heterogeneity related to characteristics of the study population: severity of glaucoma.
C. Heterogeneity related to issues of methodological quality.
As we expected a large number of included studies to be case-control, we considered a particular type of bias resembling incorporation bias for these studies. Usually the investigator assessing the presence of glaucoma does not rely exclusively on valid perimetric criteria to allocate patients to the glaucoma group, but also on optic disc appearance such as cupping. Diseased patients may have larger cups than expected, thus enhancing the ability of imaging methods to detect disease based on disc morphology algorithms. For this reason, we investigated heterogeneity between case-control studies using visual field only versus case-control studies using visual field plus optic disc as a reference standard. We considered visual field alone the preferred, unbiased reference standard method (Garway-Heath 1998).
We originally planned to investigate heterogeneity based on specific methodological issues of included studies (Appendix 1): inclusion of a representative spectrum of patients; reporting of uninterpretable results; choice of unit of analysis. However, we then adopted QUADAS 2 and used its domains for heterogeneity investigation.
Finally, we planned an exploratory subgroup analysis based on the overall level of missing data, regardless of their cause (including withdrawals and any patients who may have been excluded because of uninterpretable index test results), using the median level of missing data across studies to define better versus worse quality, as well as a level of 10% missing data for the same purpose. We planned further subgroup analyses to investigate the contribution of studies that did not report any missing data but did not explicitly state that there were no missing data.</objective>
  <type_of_study>
We planned to include all prospective and retrospective cohort studies and case-control studies that evaluate the accuracy of OCT, HRT or the GDx for diagnosing glaucoma. We included both single studies assessing each imaging method and comparative studies assessing more than one imaging method in the same patient population. We included only studies that provide data to allow calculation of sensitivity and specificity estimates.
A first draft of this review was submitted based on a literature search conducted until 15 June 2013, which identified a large number of case-control studies. During the revision of the final version of this review, we updated the search to 15 February 2015 and found some additional case-control studies. We decided not to include these additional case-control studies, as they are known to be prone to methodological biases and unlikely to change the current evidence base. Future updates of this review should only focus on studies where the patient population is enrolled consecutively, with the same set of inclusion criteria, such as referable patients identified in primary care.
We applied no language restriction to the inclusion criteria of the studies.</type_of_study>
  <participants>
The tests on which this review focuses have not been extensively studied in population-based screening studies, which should be the subject of a future Cochrane review on screening tests for glaucoma. The published protocol for this review stated we would include glaucoma suspects, but did not fully specify the professional and clinical pathway stage at which such a question is made. Framing the question in a well-defined pathay is also difficult due to variation of eye care pattens in different health care settings. In retrospect, the findings of this review could be used in an add-on setting which could be a primary care, or a triage setting when somebody has already been referred from primary care to secondary care as suspect glaucoma and needs triage by a non glaucoma specialist</participants>
  <index_tests>
We assessed the following imaging devices: confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscopy (HRT); optical coherence tomography (OCT); and scanning laser polarimetry (GDx). For each test we extracted and analysed all parameters which can be obtained with standard commercial software and are measuring RNFL or ONH morphology.
During the review process, we decided to extract OCT measures that are not related to RNFL and ONH morphology, but to macular cell layers affected by glaucoma, such as ganglion cell complex (GCC) and ganglion cell inner plexiform layer (GCIPL), as these parameters have gained popularity in recent years.</index_tests>
  <target_conditions>
The target condition of interest was manifest glaucoma.</target_conditions>
  <reference_standards>
There is no universally-accepted reference standard for the diagnosis of manifest glaucoma. Both optic disc and visual field damage are used to diagnose the presence of glaucoma. Several systems have been proposed to score visual field and optic disc damage and have been tested in multicentre randomised controlled trials (RCTs) (AGIS 1994; CIGTS 1999; EMGT 1999). While we accepted any diagnosis of glaucoma given by the study investigators, we conducted subgroup analyses to assess whether differences between studies could be explained by the choice of the reference standard.</reference_standards>
</root>
