<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<root>
  <objective>
To determine the diagnostic accuracy of OCT for detecting DMO and CSMO, defined according to ETDRS 1985, in patients referred to ophthalmologists after DR is detected. In the update of this review we also aimed to assess whether OCT might be considered the new reference standard for detecting DMO.
Secondary objectives
1) Heterogeneity investigation
To determine which retinal thickness cut-off or which OCT algorithm yields the best diagnostic performance. In fact, clinicians may use different thresholds of retinal thickness to define DMO and CSMO. Furthermore, thickness can be calculated using different algorithms (such as, previously, central point thickness or, currently, central subfield thickness, which were found to be highly correlated in DRCR Network 2008) or other algorithms that try to detect paracentral retinal thickening (Sadda 2006).
Based on a previous systematic review on this topic, conducted by some of the authors (Virgili 2007), we initially planned to investigate the following sources of clinical heterogeneity.
A. Heterogeneity related to retinal thickness cut-off
We originally planned to explore which cut-off value of central retinal thickness represents the best trade-off of sensitivity and specificity for clinical use. We selected only two pre-planned cut-offs because data driven cut-off selection has been found to lead to optimistic estimates of sensitivity and specificity, especially in small studies (Leeflang 2008). Based on the Virgili 2007 review, we expected to report on a sensitive and a specific threshold, corresponding to values of 250 µm and 300 µm (± 25 µm for both cut-offs). However, only one study reported both thresholds and we used the available information as explained later in the review. Furthermore, the calibration of different OCT devices was found to vary, making the effect of using a specific threshold inconsistent (Wolf-Schnurrbusch 2009).
B. Heterogeneity related to index test
Which OCT definition of CSMO should be preferred, such as using the central thickness subfield or complex diagnostic algorithms?
What is the difference between OCT models of different generations which were found to yield different measurements (Forooghian 2008; Kiernan 2009; Wolf-Schnurrbusch 2009)?
C. Heterogeneity related to reference standard
What is the impact of the type of reference standard used, i.e. stereophotography, contact or non-contact lens biomicroscopy?
D. Heterogeneity related to characteristics of the study population
What is the performance of OCT in higher versus lower prevalence studies? (Taking into account that we planned to include clinic-based series, a level of prevalence around 30% was considered a priori.)
E. Heterogeneity related to methodological study quality items
See Appendix 1 of the QUADAS 2 checklist (Whiting 2011) which replaced QUADAS (Whiting 2003) in the update of this review. We dichotomised QUADAS 2 items using yes versus other categories and planned to use a Risk of Bias or Applicability as covariate if the smaller subgroup included at least three studies.
2) To assess whether OCT might be considered the new reference standard
The updated version of this review included an introductory section on the clinical pathways and the role of the index test, which is now a mandatory item in RevMan 2012. The diagnostic accuracy framework is valid if the clinical reference standard is the best available method for establishing the presence or absence of the target (Bossuyt 2008) and implies that, in patients with discordant results, the reference standard is true and the index test is wrong.
Diagnostic studies can take the "agreement" rather than the "accuracy" perspective to compare OCT and fundus examination, implying that neither test was believed to be more valid than the other. Browning 2008b; Ockrim 2010; Olson 2013 and Ontario HTA 2009 believed that OCT is more sensitive than clinical examination or stereoscopic fundus photography for the detection of retinal thickening. Lord 2006 and Lord 2009 advised that whenever clinicians use a new diagnostic test because it is more sensitive than an old test, they need to be clear about the assumptions linking this evidence to improved patient outcomes, such as evidence that the new test detects the same spectrum of disease as the old test, or that similar treatment efficacy exists across the spectrum of disease. Although this issue is not an aim of our review, and we did not try to systematically investigate it, it is clearly key in interpreting and using our results and will be discussed based on articles assessed during the preparation of this review, as well as their relevant references.</objective>
  <type_of_study>
We planned to include all prospective and retrospective consecutive series of patients and case-control studies that evaluated the accuracy of OCT for diagnosing DMO. As discussed above, we acknowledge that the clinical pathway is unclear and may vary across settings and countries. Therefore, we accepted studies in which a two-by-two table was presented which crossed the results of OCT retinal thickness, dichotomised at the approximate thresholds of interest, with ophthalmologists' detection of DMO or CSMO by means of fundus biomicroscopy or photography as defined later. We recorded the settings in which patients were recruited and examined in each study.</type_of_study>
  <participants>
Included participants were people referred to ophthalmologists because they had been found to have some level of DR, expectedly by primary care professionals, such as optometrists, diabetologists and general practitioners, or by other ophthalmologists.
Prevalence is often an indicator of severity of disease spectrum in a study. If patients with any level of DR were examined, the prevalence of DMO would be expected to be lower than 10% (Williams 2004; Yau 2012). However, a relatively high prevalence of DMO was expected, as found in studies included in a previous systematic review (Virgili 2007) and conducted in retina practices, suggesting that a diagnosis of more severe DR, or even any DMO, had already been carried out in the study population.</participants>
  <index_tests>
The index test was OCT, regardless of the generation of development of the instrument (low or high resolution, three-dimensional or spectral-domain OCTs).
Despite the fact that retinal thickness measurements with OCT have been compared to those obtained with the Retinal Thickness Analyzer in at least one study (Goebel 2006), based on our knowledge we believe that such a comparison is no longer of interest given the dominant use of OCT devices. We are not aware of any other instruments that can be compared to OCT.</index_tests>
  <target_conditions>
Our review considered the target conditions as both the general definition of DMO and its most severe type, CSMO. In fact, finding the milder form of DMO still has implications regarding the need for closer follow-up as well as on visual prognosis (ETDRS 1985). The ETDRS definitions of DMO and CSMO were adopted in the original version of this review because these definitions have proven prognostic value and CSMO has represented for years the main indication for focal or grid laser photocoagulation (ETDRS 1985); although this treatment technique is less used with the advent of antiangiogenic therapy (Virgili 2014). The most common type of CSMO is the central type, defined as retinal thickening within 500 µm of the centre of the macula or, alternatively, hard exudates within 500 µm of the centre of the macula and with thickening of the adjacent retina. The non-central type of CSMO is less common and is defined as a zone of retinal thickening, one disc area or larger, any portion of which is located within one disc diameter from the centre of the macula.
Anatomic lesions different from retinal thickening such as the presence of intraretinal cysts, retinal layer abnormalities (Alasil 2010; Yohannan 2013), or a thickened posterior vitreous surface adhering to the macula, which is better seen using OCT, have been suggested to be relevant features of DMO in OCT (Chan 2005). However, there is currently no widely accepted standard to define and report these clinical and OCT aspects and to relate them to the ETDRS definitions of DMO and CSMO, which rely on retinal thickening. Finally, we did not take into account the role of other biomicroscopic findings, including a thickened hyaloid, and their influence on the diagnostic performance of OCT in DMO patients.</target_conditions>
  <reference_standards>
In the ETDRS study DMO was defined on the basis of stereoscopic fundus photography (ETDRS 1985). This technique is complicated and difficult to use in a clinical setting. It was replaced by contact fundus biomicroscopy, which was found to be in close agreement with stereophotography, particularly for CSMO (Kinyoun 1989). Non-contact fundus biomicroscopy is more commonly used, since sophisticated fundus lenses have been proposed for binocular fundus observation during the past two decades, yet it has been shown to be slightly less sensitive than contact fundus biomicroscopy in the study conducted by Browning et al (Browning 2004).
When this review was conceived, we considered that valid reference tests were stereoscopic fundus photography and contact lens or non-contact lens biomicroscopy of the fundus. As reported above, in the update of this review, we acknowledge that OCT is increasingly thought of as a new reference standard for DMO (Olson 2013; Ontario HTA 2009) and will not update the review further. Although the American Academy of Ophthalmology’s Preferred Practice Patterns (AAO PPP 2012) still considers clinical examination as the current recommendation for routine diagnosis of DMO, Schneider 2013 found that the use of OCT has greatly increased for patients with neovascular age-related macular degeneration or DMO in recent years, while that of fluorescein angiography or fundus photography has decreased.</reference_standards>
</root>
