<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<root>
  <objective>
To determine the diagnostic accuracy of one or multiple FRS for diagnosing schizophrenia, verified by clinical history and examination by a qualified professional (e.g. psychiatrists, nurses, social workers), with or without the use of operational criteria and checklists, in people thought to have non-organic psychotic symptoms.</objective>
  <type_of_study>
We included both retrospective and prospective studies, which consecutively or randomly selected participants. We excluded case-control studies that used healthy controls.
Studies were included that evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of First Rank Symptoms (one or multiple) for diagnosis of schizophrenia compared with a reference standard, irrespective of publication status and language.</type_of_study>
  <participants>
We included adolescents and adults presenting with psychotic symptoms, which included symptoms such as, hallucinations, delusions, disordered thinking and speech, grossly disorganised or catatonic behaviour, or negative symptoms (i.e. affective flattening, alogia, or volition). We did not exclude on the grounds of co-morbidities. In addition, if a study reported all admissions to a psychiatric ward instead of only people admitted with psychosis, the study, including those participants with non-psychotic symptoms, was not excluded. We did exclude if participants had organic source of psychosis, such as that triggered by an existent physical disease or alcohol and drug abuse.
Particular attention was paid to history, current clinical state (acute, post-acute or quiescent), stage of illness (prodromal, early, established, late), or if there were predominant clinical issues (negative or positive symptoms). In addition, setting and referral status of people in the study was noted. We recognise that people in psychiatric hospital have already experienced a considerable degree of prior testing compared with those in community settings. Also, for similar reasons, people referred to a specialist centre treating only those with schizophrenia may well be different to those in general care.</participants>
  <index_tests>
Schneider First Rank Symptoms (Table 1). The presence of any one of these symptoms, or multiple symptoms, would be indicative of a diagnosis of schizophrenia. We consider this an acceptable variation in threshold as Kurt Schneider proposed that presence of any one of these symptoms was diagnostic of schizophrenia as long as the person was free of other organic causes such as substance misuse, epilepsy or tumours (Schneider 1959). The different value of one symptom over another is not the focus of this review.</index_tests>
  <target_conditions>
All types of schizophrenia disorder regardless of descriptive subcategory (e.g. paranoid, disorganised, catatonic, undifferentiated and residual). Studies that reported results combined for diagnoses related to schizophrenia (e.g. schizoaffective and schizophreniform disorder) in which data could not be separated were included and we investigated potential heterogeneity.</target_conditions>
  <reference_standards>
The reference standard is history and clinical examination collected by a qualified professional (e.g., psychiatrists, nurses, social workers), which may or may not involve the use of operational criteria or checklists of symptoms such as:
International Statistical Classification of Diseases (ICD-9 or ICD-10) (Table 2);
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorder (DSM-III or DSM-IV) (Table 3);
Feighner (Feighner 1972);
Research Diagnostic Criteria (Spitzer 1978);
Carpenter criteria (Carpenter 1973);
New Haven (Astrachan 1974);
Taylor Abrams (Taylor 1978);
Bleulerian (Bleuler 1950) and/or ego function (Bellak 1973).
The more modern of these criteria involve some degree of follow-up.
Ideally, in order to avoid incorporation bias the reference standard and the diagnostic test under consideration should be entirely independent of one another (Worster 2008). We were not be able to avoid incorporation bias with this review, as in most cases the reference standard incorporated FRS and hence the diagnostic accuracy may potentially be overestimated (Worster 2008). Also, in many cases using FRS also included taking a history and clinical examination, again contaminating the uniqueness of either approach. Differences between FRS and the reference standard lies in utilisation of:
a longitudinal frame work in addition to the cross sectional assessment of specific symptoms of psychosis such as FRS (reflecting limbic system abnormalities); and
less specific symptoms of psychosis such as the consequences of having acute psychotic symptoms and the deleterious effects of psychosis.
Heterogeneity due to whether FRSs or any operational criteria were used as part of the reference standard was investigated.</reference_standards>
</root>
