<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<root>
  <objective>
To determine and compare the accuracy of EUS and MRCP for the diagnosis of common bile duct stones.
Secondary objectives
To investigate variation in the diagnostic accuracy of EUS and MRCP according to the following potential sources of heterogeneity.
Studies at low risk of bias versus those with unclear or high risk of bias (as assessed by the QUADAS-2) tool (Table 1).
Table 1. Application of the QUADAS-2 tool for assessing methodological quality of included studies
Domain 1: Patient sampling Signalling question Signalling question Signalling question Risk of bias Concerns for applicability
Patient sampling Was a consecutive or random sample of patients enrolled? Was a case-control design avoided? Did the study avoid inappropriate exclusions? Could the selection of patients have introduced bias? Were there concerns that the included patients and setting did not match the review question?
  Yes: all consecutive patients or random sample of patients with suspected common bile duct stones were enrolled
No: selected patients were enrolled
Unclear: this was not clear form the report
Yes: case-control design was avoided.
No: case-control design was not avoided
Unclear: this was not clear from the report.
Yes: the study avoided inappropriate exclusions (i.e., difficult to diagnose patients)
No: the study excluded patients inappropriately
Unclear: this was not clear from the report
Low risk: 'yes' for all signalling questions
High risk: 'no' or 'unclear' for at least one signalling question
Low concern: the selected patients represent the patients in whom the tests will be used in clinical practice (please see diagnostic pathway (
Figure 1)
High concern: there was high concern that patient selection was performed in a such a way that the included patients did not represent the patients in whom the tests will be used in clinical practice
Domain 2: Index test          
Index test(s) Were the index test results interpreted without knowledge of the results of the reference standard? If a threshold was used, was it pre-specified?   Could the conduct or interpretation of the index test have introduced bias? Were there concerns that the index test, its conduct, or interpretation differ from the review question?
  Yes: index test results were interpreted without knowledge of the results of the reference standard
No: index test results were interpreted with knowledge of the results of the reference standard
Unclear: this was not clear from the report
Not applicable  
Low risk: 'yes' for all signalling questions
High risk: 'no' or 'unclear' for at least one of the two signalling questions
High concern: there was high concern that the conduct or interpretation of the index test differs from the way it is likely to be used in clinical practice
Low concern: there was low concern that the conduct or interpretation of the index test differs from the way it is likely to be used in clinical practice
Domain 3: Reference standard          
Target condition and reference standard(s) Was the reference standard likely to correctly classify the target condition? Were the reference standard results interpreted without knowledge of the results of the index tests?   Could the reference standard, its conduct, or its interpretation have introduced bias? Were there concerns that the target condition as defined by the reference standard does not match the review question?
  Yes: all patients underwent the acceptable reference standard
No: if all patients did not undergo an acceptable reference standard. Such studies will be excluded from the review
Unclear: if the reference standard that the patients underwent was not stated. Such studies will be excluded from the review
Yes: reference standard results were interpreted without knowledge of the results of the index test
No: reference standard results were interpreted with the knowledge of the results of the index test
Unclear: this was not clear from the report
  Low risk: 'yes' for all signalling questions
High risk: 'no' or 'unclear' for at least one of the two signalling questions
Low concern: patients underwent endoscopic or surgical exploration for common bile duct stone
High concern: all patients did not undergo endoscopic or surgical exploration for common bile duct stone
Domain 4: Flow and timing          
Flow and timing Was there an appropriate interval between index test and reference standard? Did all patients receive the same reference standard? Were all patients included in the analysis? Could the patient flow have introduced bias?  
  Yes: the interval between index test and reference standard was shorter than or equal to four weeks (arbitrary choice)
No: the interval between index test and reference standard was longer than four weeks
Unclear: this was not clear from the report
Yes: all patients underwent endoscopic or surgical exploration for common bile duct stone irrespective of the index test results
No: patients underwent endoscopic or surgical exploration if the index test results were positive and underwent clinical follow-up for at least 6 months if the index test results were negative
Unclear: this was not clear from the report. Such studies were excluded
Yes: all patients meeting the selection criteria (selected patients) were included in the analysis, or data on all the selected patients were available so that a 2 x 2 table including all selected patients could be constructed
No: not all patients meeting the selection criteria were included in the analysis or the 2 x 2 table could not be constructed using data on all selected patients
Unclear: this was not clear from the report
Low risk: 'yes' for all signalling questions
High risk: 'no' or 'unclear' for at least one signalling question
  Full text publications versus abstracts (this may indicate publication bias if there is an association between the results of the study and the study reaching full publication) (Eloubeidi 2001).
Prospective versus retrospective studies.
Symptomatic versus asymptomatic common bile duct stones (the presence of symptoms may increase the pre-test probability). Symptomatic patients are defined as patients showing upper right quadrant abdominal pain, jaundice, acute cholangitis or acute pancreatitis (Anciaux 1986; Roston 1997; Raraty 1998; Toh 2000; Tranter 2003).
Prevalence of common bile duct stones in each included study. The prevalence of common bile duct stones in the population analysed by each included study may vary and cause heterogeneity. Prevalence may also change with the presence of patients with comorbidities that would predispose them to common bile duct stones such as primary sclerosing cholangitis, Caroli's disease, hypercholesterolaemia, sickle cell anaemia, and sphincter of Oddi dysfunction.
Proportion of patients with previous cholecystectomy. Cholecystectomy may cause dilatation of the common bile duct (Benjaminov 2013) and subsequently change the accuracy of the index test, particularly imaging modalities.
Proportion of patients with common bile duct strictures (only for index tests that use contrast material, as strictures may prevent contrast material from filling the common bile duct completely and, therefore, change the accuracy of the index test).</objective>
  <type_of_study>
We included studies providing cross-sectional information comparing one or more of the index tests against a reference standard in the appropriate patient population (see Participants). We included studies irrespective of language or publication status, or whether data were collected prospectively or retrospectively. We planned to include comparative studies in which EUS and MRCP were performed in the same study population, either by giving all patients both index tests or by randomly allocating patients to receive MRCP or EUS. We planned to exclude diagnostic case-control studies if there were at least four cross-sectional or comparative studies.</type_of_study>
  <participants>
Patients at risk or suspected of having common bile duct stones with or without prior diagnosis of cholelithiasis; with or without symptoms and complications of common bile duct stones or with or without prior treatment for common bile duct stones; and before or after cholecystectomy.</participants>
  <index_tests>
Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) and magnetic resonance retrograde cholangiopancreatography (MRCP).</index_tests>
  <target_conditions>
Common bile duct stones.</target_conditions>
  <reference_standards>
We accepted the following reference standards.
For test positives, we accepted confirmation of a common bile duct stone by extraction of the stone (irrespective of whether this was done by surgical or endoscopic methods).
For test negatives, we acknowledged that there was no way of being absolutely sure that there were no common bile duct stones. However, we accepted negative results by surgical or endoscopic negative exploration of the common bile duct, or symptom-free follow-up for at least six months as the reference standard. Surgical or endoscopic exploration is adequate but it is not commonly used in patients with negative index tests because of its invasive nature. Therefore, we accepted follow-up as a less adequate reference test. Negative exploration of the common bile duct is likely to be a better reference standard than follow-up for at least six months since most stones already present in the common bile duct are likely to be identified and extracted in this fashion. Six months is an arbitrary choice but we anticipated that most common bile duct stones will manifest during this period.</reference_standards>
</root>
